Database is a collection of related data and data is a collection of facts and figures that can be processed to produce information. Mostly data represents recordable facts. Data aids in producing information, which is based on facts. 
A database management system stores data in such a way that it becomes easier to retrieve, manipulate, and produce information. 
Traditionally, data was organized in file formats. DBMS was a new concept then, and all the research was done to make it overcome the deficiencies in traditional style of data management. 
A modern DBMS is more realistic and uses real-world entities to design its architecture. It uses the behavior and attributes too. 
For example, a school database may use students as an entity and their age as an attribute. 
DBMS allows entities and relations among them to form tables. A user can understand the architecture of a database just by looking at the table names. 
A database system is entirely different than its data. A database is an active entity, whereas data is said to be passive, on which the database works and organizes. DBMS also stores metadata, which is data about data, to ease its own process. 
DBMS follows the rules of normalization, which splits a relation when any of its attributes is having redundancy in values. Normalization is a mathematically rich and scientific process that reduces data redundancy. 
Consistency is a state where every relation in a database remains consistent. There exist methods and techniques, which can detect attempt of leaving database in inconsistent state. 
A DBMS can provide greater consistency as compared to earlier forms of data storing applications like file-processing systems. 
DBMS is equipped with query language, which makes it more efficient to retrieve and manipulate data. A user can apply as many and as different filtering options as required to retrieve a set of data. Traditionally it was not possible where file-processing system was used. 
A database-management system (DBMS) is a computer-
software application that interacts with end-users, other applications, and the database itself to capture and analyze data. A general-purpose DBMS allows the definition, creation, querying, update, and administration of databases. Formally, a "database" refers to a set of related data and the way it is organized.
An entity is any object in the system that we want to model and store information about. Entities are usually recognizable concepts, either concrete or abstract, such as person, places, things, or events which have relevance to the database. 
ACID acronym stands for the properties maintained by standard database management systems, standing for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability.
A situation in which resources (i.e. locks) are held by two or more connections that are each needed by the other connections so that they are stuck in an infinite wait loop is called Deadlock. 
A database in which inter-table relationships are organized primarily through common data columns, which define a one-to-many relationship between a row of the primary key table and one or more rows of the matching foreign key table. 
An embedded database is the combination of a database and the database software which typically resides within an application. The database holds information and the software control the database to access or store information. The application software, or the user-interface, then accesses the database and presents that information in a way which is easy for the user to interpret and understand. When a snapshot of the database is taken, an instance of the database is frozen and concurrent reads are allowed to occur on that snapshot.  Database writes are allowed to continue while reads on the snapshot are happening.